# Data Sharing Concerns for Period Tracking Apps
In this document I discuss recent news on data sharing from period tracking apps via two articles that contain opposing views on the matter. This topic is especially a concern for users as these apps contain highly sensitive health information, and some of this information could have political implications depending on where users live. 

## Article 1
In BBC's [Period trackers to be reviewed over data concerns](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-66740184) user concerns surrounding data sharing from period tracking apps is highlighted. Research showed 17% of users found baby or fertility related ads as distressing, with some also noting an recent increase in those types of ads. These apps contain highly sensitive and personal health information, so targeted ads and data sharing in this case is a larger cause for concern than in the case of clothing or food preferences, for example. 

The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is launching an investigation to determine if app privacy policies are unecessarily complex to the point that users are unaware of what they are consenting to sharing. The regulator is contacting both users and companies to understand experience and the processing of this data. They are also considering data storage of certain information and targeted ads as points of potential future regulation. The ICO seems to be prioritizing user experience and user privacy concerns, while the article seems to support the idea that user privacy for these apps should be a priority and a point of regulation. 

## Article 2
On the contrary, NPR's [How period tracking apps and data privacy fit into a post-Roe v. Wade climate](https://www.npr.org/2022/05/10/1097482967/roe-v-wade-supreme-court-abortion-period-apps) offers the idea that apps and regulatory agencies may not be able to be trusted with this information at all. Jason Hong, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, highlights that even third parties may sell information so in reality information about users may be spread further than they know. The article also outlines that in many cases apps or data companies cooperate with local, state, and federal agencies and provide them access to data in the case of investigations. In a post-Roe v. Wade world this could have many implications, but the precedent of cooperation has always existed. 

The article ends by providing a slight antiquated solution: paper tracking. While many companies have made pledges to protect customer privacy and warrants are required to access this data in terms of law enforcement, ultimately companies will act in their own best interests. While user privacy is critical, the article notes that it is not guaranteed, nor can people rely on the aforementioned investigations or pledges to ensure their privacy, so they should proceed with caution if they feel their data may cause them to be subject to any harm. 